releases: add tidb 5.2.4 release notes (#8253)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.2.4.md

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Expose configuration parameters of the Kafka producer to make them configurable in TiCDC [#4385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4385)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)

>         - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4665)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support multiple Kubernetes clusters in Grafana dashboards [#4665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4665)
```

>         - Show changefeed checkepoint catch-up ETA in metrics. [#5232](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5232)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Add changefeed checkepoint catch-up ETA in metrics. [#5232](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5232)
```

    - Fix the issue that the IndexHashJoin operator does not exit successfully [#31062](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31062)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might read wrong data when a table has a virtual column [#30965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30965)
    - Fix the issue that the setting of the log level does not take effect on the slow query log [#30309](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30309)
    - Fix the issue that partitioned tables cannot fully use the index to scan data in some cases [#33966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33966)
    - Fix the issue that the background HTTP service of TiDB might not exit successfully and makes the cluster in an abnormal state [#30571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30571)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might unexpectedly output many logs of failed authentication [#29709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29709)
    - Fix the issue that the system variable `max_allowed_packet` does not take effect [#31422](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31422)

>     - Fix the issue that the `REPLACE` statement incorrectly changes other rows when the auto ID is out of range [#29483](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29483)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `REPLACE` statement incorrectly changes other rows when the auto ID is out of range [#29483](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29483)
    - Fix the issue that the slow query log cannot output log normally and may cause too much memory  [#32656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32656)
    - Fix the issue that the NATURAL JOIN may output unexpected column [#24981](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
    - Fix the issue that the ORDER BY + LIMIT clause may output wrong result if we use prefix-column index to seek data [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
    - Fix the issue that the DOUBLE type auto-incremental column may be changed when the optimistic transaction retries [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)
    - Fix the issue that the STR_TO_DATE function cannot handle the preceding zero of the microsecond part correctly [#30078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30078)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when we use TiFlash to scan table with empty range although the TiFlash doesn't support read table with empty range yet [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)
```

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (which means the internal command `unsafe_destroy_range` is executed) when the GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that deleting an uninitialized replica might cause an old replica to be recreated [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV performs a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the deadlock issue that happens occasionally when coroutines run too fast [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV panics and destroys peers unexpectedly because the target Region to be merged is faked [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV panics and destroys peers unexpectedly because the target Region to be merged is invalid [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)
```

    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is  replaced with a destroyed uninitialized peer when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
    - Fix the TiKV panic  issue that occurs when applying snapshot is aborted [#11618](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11618)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that TiKV doesn't calculate sending (snapshot?) count correctly if some operator execution fails [#11341](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11341)

```

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that casting `INT` to `DECIMAL` might cause overflow [#3920](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3920)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `DATETIME` to `DECIMAL` [#4151](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4151)
    - Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` when an overflow happens [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
    - Fix the issue that `CastStringAsReal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV [#3475](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3475)
    - Fix the issue that `CastStringAsDecimal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV [#3619](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3619)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might return the `EstablishMPPConnection` error after it is restarted [#3615](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3615)
    - Fix the issue that obsolete data cannot be reclaimed after setting the tiflash replica to 0 [#3659](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3659)

>     - Fix the potential data inconsistency caused by widening the primary key column when the primary key is handle [#3569](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3569)
>     - Fix the possible parsing errors when an SQL statement contains extremely long nested expressions [#3354](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3354)
>     - Fix the possible wrong result that queries with the `where <string>` clause [#3447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3447)
>     - Fix the possible wrong result when new collation is enabled [#3388](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3388), [#3391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3391)
>     - Fix the panic issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
>     - Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
>     - Fix the panic issue that occurs when an MPP query is stopped [#3401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3401)
>     - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix potential data inconsistency when widening the primary key column with the primary key being `handle` [#3569](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3569)
    - Fix possible parsing errors when an SQL statement contains extremely long nested expressions [#3354](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3354)
    - Fix possible wrong results when a query contains the `where <string>` clause [#3447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3447)
    - Fix possible wrong results when a new collation is enabled [#3388](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3388), [#3391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3391)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes occasionally when an MPP query is stopped [#3401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3401)
    - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)
```

>     - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)
    - Fix the metadata corruption issue when `Prepare Merge` is triggered after a new election is finished but the isolated peer is not informed [#4437](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4437)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix BR failure on backup rawkv. [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that BR fails when backing up rawkv. [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)
```

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Expose configuration parameters of the Kafka producer to make them configurable in TiCDC [#4385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4385)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
        - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4665)

>         - Show changefeed checkepoint catch-up ETA in metrics. [#3311](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3311)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Show changefeed checkepoint catch-up ETA in metrics. [#5232](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5232)
```

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (which means the internal command `unsafe_destroy_range` is executed) when the GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that deleting an uninitialized replica might cause an old replica to be recreated [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV performs a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the deadlock issue that happens occasionally when coroutines run too fast [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)

>     - Fix TiKV panic and peer unexpectedly destroyed due to fake merge target [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)
>     - Fix panic when target peer is replaced with a destroyed uninitialized peer during merge [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
>     - Fix panic when applying snapshot is aborted [#11618](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11618)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV panics and destroys peers unexpectedly because the target Region to be merged is faked [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is  replaced with a destroyed uninitialized peer when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
    - Fix the TiKV panic  issue that occurs when applying snapshot is aborted [#11618](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11618)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV panics and destroys peers unexpectedly because the target Region to be merged is faked [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)
>     - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is  replaced with a destroyed uninitialized peer when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
>     - Fix the TiKV panic  issue that occurs when applying snapshot is aborted [#11618](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11618)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

+ PD

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that the Region scatterer scheduling lost some peers [#4565](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4565)
    - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

+ TiFlash

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)-  Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)

>     - Fix the bug that invalid storage dir configurations lead to unexpected behavior [#4093](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4093)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that invalid storage directory configurations lead to unexpected behavior [#4093](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4093)
```

    - Fix the bug that some exception is not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)

>     - Fix the bug that function `STR_TO_DATE()` incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing microseconds [#3557](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3557)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that the `STR_TO_DATE()` function incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing microseconds [#3557](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3557)
```

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that casting `INT` to `DECIMAL` might cause overflow [#3920](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3920)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `DATETIME` to `DECIMAL` [#4151](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4151)

>     - Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` when an overflow happens [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the overflow that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `CastStringAsReal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV [#3475](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3475)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `CastStringAsReal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB or TiKV [#3475](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3475)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `CastStringAsDecimal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV [#3619](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3619)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `CastStringAsDecimal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB or TiKV [#3619](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3619)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might return the `EstablishMPPConnection` error after it is restarted [#3615](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3615)

>     - Fix the issue that obsolete data cannot be reclaimed after setting the tiflash replica to 0 [#3659](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3659)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that obsolete data cannot be reclaimed after setting the number of TiFlash replicas to 0 [#3659](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3659)
```

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that a TiCDC node exits abnormally when a PD leader is killed [#4248](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4248)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix a bug that MySQL sink generates duplicated `replace` SQL statements when`batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue of panic and data inconsistency that occurs when outputting the default column value [#3929](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3929)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that `mq sink write row` does not have monitoring data [#3431](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3431)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that replication cannot be performed when `min.insync.replicas` is smaller than `replication-factor` [#3994](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3994)

>         - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that `mq sink write row` does not have monitoring data [#3431](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3431)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 6: duplicated with line 156

        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the TiCDC panic issue that occurs when manually cleaning the task status in etcd [#2980](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2980)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that special comments in DDL statements cause the replication task to stop [#3755](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3755)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue of replication stop caused by the incorrect configuration of `config.Metadata.Timeout` [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3352)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that the service cannot be started because of a timezone issue in the RHEL release [#3584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3584)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that `stopped` changefeeds resume automatically after a cluster upgrade [#3473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3473)

>         - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that default values cannot be replicated [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 6: duplicated with line 151

    - Fix the issue that TiDB might read wrong data when a table has a virtual column [#30965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30965)
    - Fix the issue that the setting of the log level does not take effect on the slow query log [#30309](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30309)
    - Fix the issue that partitioned tables cannot fully use the index to scan data in some cases [#33966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33966)
    - Fix the issue that the background HTTP service of TiDB might not exit successfully and makes the cluster in an abnormal state [#30571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30571)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might unexpectedly output many logs of failed authentication [#29709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29709)
    - Fix the issue that the system variable `max_allowed_packet` does not take effect [#31422](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31422)
    - Fix the issue that the `REPLACE` statement incorrectly changes other rows when the auto ID is out of range [#29483](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29483)

>     - Fix the issue that the slow query log cannot output log normally and may cause too much memory  [#32656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32656)
>     - Fix the issue that the NATURAL JOIN may output unexpected column [#24981](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
>     - Fix the issue that the ORDER BY + LIMIT clause may output wrong result if we use prefix-column index to seek data [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
>     - Fix the issue that the DOUBLE type auto-incremental column may be changed when the optimistic transaction retries [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)
>     - Fix the issue that the STR_TO_DATE function cannot handle the preceding zero of the microsecond part correctly [#30078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30078)
>     - Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when we use TiFlash to scan table with empty range although the TiFlash doesn't support read table with empty range yet [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the slow query log cannot output log normally and might consume too much memory  [#32656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32656)
    - Fix the issue that the result of NATURAL JOIN might include unexpected columns [#24981](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
    - Fix the issue that using ORDER BY and LIMIT together in one statement might output wrong results if a prefix-column index is used to query data [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
    - Fix the issue that the DOUBLE type auto-incremental column might be changed when the optimistic transaction retries [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)
    - Fix the issue that the STR_TO_DATE function cannot handle the preceding zero of the microsecond part correctly [#30078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30078)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when using TiFlash to scan tables with empty range although the TiFlash does not support reading tables with empty range yet [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)
```

Reviewer 6: [Still being updated]

    - Fix the issue that Window function should return error but cause TiDB to crash [#30326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30326)
    - Fix the issue that the Merge Join Executor would get the wrong result in special cases [#33042](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33042)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when the correlated subquery output constant  [#32089](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32089)
    - FIx the issue that TiDB write wrong data caused by the wrong encoding of ENUM/SET column [#32302](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32302)
    - Fix the issue that the MAX/MIN function on the ENUM/SET column returns the wrong result when TiDB enables new_collation [#31638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31638)
    - Fix the issue that IndexHashJoin executor doesn't exit successfully [#31062](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31062)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB may read wrong data when the table has virtual columns [#30965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30965)

>     - Fix the issue that the setting of the log level doesn't work for slow query log [#30309](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30309)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the setting of the log level doesn't work for slow query log [#30309](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30309)
    - Fix the issue that the partitioned table cannot fully use the index to seek data in some cases [#33966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33966)
    - Fix the issue that the background HTTP service of TiDB may not exit successfully and make the cluster in the abnormal state [#30571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30571)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB may wrongly output many authentication failed log [#29709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29709)
```

    - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

+ TiFlash

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)-  Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    - Fix the bug that invalid storage dir configurations lead to unexpected behavior [#4093](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4093)

>     - Fix the bug that some exception is not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that some exceptions are not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)
```

    - Fix potential data inconsistency when widening the primary key column with the primary key being `handle` [#3569](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3569)
    - Fix possible parsing errors when an SQL statement contains extremely long nested expressions [#3354](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3354)
    - Fix possible wrong results when a query contains the `where <string>` clause [#3447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3447)
    - Fix possible wrong results when `new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap` is enabled [#3388](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3388), [#3391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3391)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes occasionally when an MPP query is stopped [#3401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3401)
    - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)

>     - Fix metadata corruption caused by running `Prepare Merge` following a new election before the isolated peer is informed of the election [#4437](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4437)

Reviewer 5: maybe we can make line 101 aligned with this line? They fix the same problem but this is for TiFlash and line 101 for TiKV
https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/4335b5158bfc671db899d475815cb30fbe21b71c/releases/release-5.2.4.md#L101

>     - Fix the issue that a query containing `JOIN` might be hung if an error occurs [#4195](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4195)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix possible wrong results for MPP queries due to incorrect plan [#3389](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3389)
```

        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue of overly frequent warnings caused by MySQL sink deadlock [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2706)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the bug that the `enable-old-value` configuration item is not automatically set to `true` on Canal and Maxwell protocols [#3676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3676)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that Avro sink does not support parsing JSON type columns [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3010)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the OOM issue in the container environment [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1798)
        - (dup: release-4.0.16.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the memory leak issue after processing DDLs [#3174](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3174)

>         - Fix chengefeed getting stuck when tables are repeatedly scheduled in the same node [#4464](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4464)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that chengefeed gets stuck when tables are repeatedly scheduled in the same node [#4464](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4464)
```

>         - Fix a bug that openapi may be stuck when pd is abnormal [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4778)
>         - Fix stale metrics caused by owner changes. [#4774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4774)
>         - Fix stability problem in workerpool, which is used by Unified Sorter. [#4447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4447)
>         - Fix kv client cached region metric could be negative. [#4300](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4300)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that openapi may be stuck when PD is abnormal [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4778)
        - Fix incorrect metrics caused by owner changes [#4774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4774)
        - Fix a stability problem in workerpool used by Unified Sorter [#4447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4447)
        - Fix the issue that the kv client cached region metric could be negative [#4300](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4300)
```

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (which means the internal command `unsafe_destroy_range` is executed) when the GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that deleting an uninitialized replica might cause an old replica to be recreated [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV performs a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the deadlock issue that happens occasionally when coroutines run too fast [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV panics and destroys peers unexpectedly because the target Region to be merged is faked [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)

>     - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is  replaced with a destroyed uninitialized peer when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is replaced with the peer that is destroyed without being initialized when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
```

>     - Fix the TiKV panic  issue that occurs when applying snapshot is aborted [#11618](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11618)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when applying snapshot is aborted [#11618](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11618)
```

        - Fix stale metrics caused by owner changes. [#4774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4774)
        - Fix stability problem in workerpool, which is used by Unified Sorter. [#4447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4447)
        - Fix kv client cached region metric could be negative. [#4300](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4300)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the issue of wrong import result that occurs when TiDB Lightning does not have the privilege to access the `mysql.tidb` table [#31088](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31088)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the checksum error “GC life time is shorter than transaction duration” [#32733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32733)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix a bug that TiDB Lightning may not delete the metadata schema when some import tasks do not contain source files [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)

>         - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not report errors when the S3 storage path does not exist [#28031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28031) [#30709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30709)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        -  Fix error occurs if iterate exceeds 1000 keys of GCS  [#30377](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30377) 
```

>         - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not report errors when the S3 storage path does not exist [#28031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28031) [#30709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30709)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not report errors when the S3 storage path does not exist [#28031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28031) [#30709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30709)
```suggestion
        -  Fix error occurs if iterate exceeds 1000 keys of GCS  [#30377](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30377) 
```

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when TiKV performs profiling on Ubuntu 18.04 [#9765](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9765)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that tikv-ctl returns an incorrect result due to its wrong string match [#12329](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12329)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that replica reads might violate the linearizability [#12109](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12109)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that TiKV might panic if it has been running for 2 years or more [#11940](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11940)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of QPS drop when flow control is enabled and `level0_slowdown_trigger` is set explicitly [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the panic issue that occurs when the cgroup controller is not mounted [#11569](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11569)

>     - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the metadata corruption issue when `Prepare Merge` is triggered after a new election is finished but the isolated peer is not informed [#11526](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11526)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix possible metadata corruption caused by Region merge on a lagging Region peer [#11526](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11526)
```

    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV performs a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the deadlock issue that happens occasionally when coroutines run too fast [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV panics and destroys peers unexpectedly because the target Region to be merged is invalid [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is replaced with the peer that is destroyed without being initialized when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when applying snapshot is aborted [#11618](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11618)

>     - Fix a bug that TiKV cannot calculate the number of snapshots being sent correctly when the operator execution fails [#11341](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11341)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that TiKV cannot correctly calculate the number of snapshots being sent when the operator execution fails [#11341](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11341)
```

    - Fix potential data inconsistency when widening the primary key column with the primary key being `handle` [#3569](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3569)
    - Fix possible parsing errors when an SQL statement contains extremely long nested expressions [#3354](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3354)
    - Fix possible wrong results when a query contains the `where <string>` clause [#3447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3447)
    - Fix possible wrong results when `new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap` is enabled [#3388](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3388), [#3391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3391)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes occasionally when an MPP query is stopped [#3401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3401)
    - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)

>     - Fix metadata corruption caused by running `Prepare Merge` following a new election before the isolated peer is informed of the election [#4437](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4437)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix possible metadata corruption caused by Region merge on a lagging Region peer [#4437](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4437)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.2.4 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.2.4 Release Notes

Release Date: April xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.2.4

## Compatibility change(s)

+ TiDB

    - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Compatibility changes> TiDB)- Change the default value of the system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) from `2` to `1` [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

+ TiKV

    - Add the [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-introduced-from-v524-version) configuration to control the time interval ("2s" by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs. 
    - Change the default value of the [`raft-log-gc-tick-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-gc-tick-interval) configuration from "10s" to "3s"

```

    - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that executing the `INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong query results due to the optimization of `Order By` [#30271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30271)
    - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the wrong result that might occur when performing `JOIN` on `ENUM` type columns [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)
    - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the panic when using the `CASE WHEN` function on the `ENUM` data type [#29357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29357)
    - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` function in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)
    - Fix the issue that the window function causes TiDB to panic instead of reporting an error [#30326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30326)

>     - Fix the issue that the Merge Join operator gets wrong results in special cases [#33042](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33042)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the Merge Join operator gets wrong results in certain cases [#33042](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33042)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiDB might read wrong data when a table has a virtual column [#30965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30965)
    - Fix the issue that the setting of the log level does not take effect on the slow query log [#30309](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30309)
    - Fix the issue that partitioned tables cannot fully use the index to scan data in some cases [#33966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33966)
    - Fix the issue that the background HTTP service of TiDB might not exit successfully and makes the cluster in an abnormal state [#30571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30571)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might unexpectedly output many logs of failed authentication [#29709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29709)
    - Fix the issue that the system variable `max_allowed_packet` does not take effect [#31422](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31422)
    - Fix the issue that the `REPLACE` statement incorrectly changes other rows when the auto ID is out of range [#29483](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29483)

>     - Fix the issue that the slow query log cannot output log normally and might consume too much memory  [#32656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32656)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the slow query log cannot output log normally and might consume too much memory [#32656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32656)
```

    - Fix the issue that the result of NATURAL JOIN might include unexpected columns [#24981](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)

>     - Fix the issue that using ORDER BY and LIMIT together in one statement might output wrong results if a prefix-column index is used to query data [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that using `ORDER BY` and `LIMIT` together in one statement might output wrong results if a prefix-column index is used to query data [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the DOUBLE type auto-incremental column might be changed when the optimistic transaction retries [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the DOUBLE type auto-increment column might be changed when the optimistic transaction retries [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)
```

    - Fix the issue that the STR_TO_DATE function cannot handle the preceding zero of the microsecond part correctly [#30078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30078)

>     - Fix a bug that TiDB uses TiFlash to scan tables with empty range, which results in wrong results [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB uses TiFlash to scan tables with empty range, which results in wrong results [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when using TiFlash to scan tables with empty range although the TiFlash does not support reading tables with empty range yet [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when using TiFlash to scan tables with empty range although TiFlash does not support reading tables with empty range yet [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when using TiFlash to scan tables with empty range although the TiFlash does not support reading tables with empty range yet [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that TiDB uses TiFlash to scan tables with empty range, which results in wrong results [#33083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33083)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.2.4 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.2.4 Release Notes

Release Date: April 26, 2022

TiDB version: 5.2.4

## Compatibility change(s)

+ TiDB

    - Change the default value of the system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) from `2` to `1` [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)

+ TiKV

>     - Add [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-new-in-v524-version) to control the time interval (`"2s"` by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Add [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.2/tikv-configuration-file#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-new-in-v524) to control the time interval (`"2s"` by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
```

>     - Add the configuration item [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-new-in-v524-version) to control the time interval (`"2s"` by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Add [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-new-in-v524-version) to control the time interval (`"2s"` by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
```

>     - Add the configuration item [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-introduced-from-v524-version) to control the time interval (`"2s"` by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Add the configuration item [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-new-in-v524) to control the time interval (`"2s"` by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
```

>     - Change the default value of the [`raft-log-gc-tick-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-gc-tick-interval) configuration from `"10s"` to `"3s"` [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Change the default value of the configuration item [`raft-log-gc-tick-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-gc-tick-interval) from `"10s"` to `"3s"` [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
```

>     - Add the [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-introduced-from-v524-version) configuration to control the time interval ("2s" by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
>     - Change the default value of the [`raft-log-gc-tick-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-gc-tick-interval) configuration from "10s" to "3s"  [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
>     - When [`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is `true`, the configuration of [`storage.flow-control.hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) overwrites that of [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf).hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Add the configuration item [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-new-in-v524-version) to control the time interval (`"2s"` by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
    - Change the default value of the [`raft-log-gc-tick-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-gc-tick-interval) configuration from `"10s"` to `"3s"` [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
    - When [`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`, the value of [`storage.flow-control.hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) overwrites that of [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf).hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
```

>     - When [`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is `true`, the configuration of [`storage.flow-control.hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) overwrites that of [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf).hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - When [`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is `true`, the configuration of [`storage.flow-control.hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) overwrites that of [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf).hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
```

>     - Add the [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-introduced-from-v524-version) configuration to control the time interval ("2s" by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
>     - Change the default value of the [`raft-log-gc-tick-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-gc-tick-interval) configuration from "10s" to "3s"  [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
>     - When [`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is `true`, the configuration of [`storage.flow-control.hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) overwrites that of [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf).hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Add the configuration item [`raft-log-compact-sync-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-compact-sync-interval-introduced-from-v524-version) to control the time interval (`2s` by default) to compact unnecessary Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
    - Change the default value of the configuration item [`raft-log-gc-tick-interval`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-log-gc-tick-interval) from `10s` to `3s` [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
    - When [`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`, the value of the configuration item [`storage.flow-control.hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) overwrites that of [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf).hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
```

    - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to the `Import` thread pool from the `Apply` thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3337)
        - Reduce the time for the KV client to recover when a TiKV store is down [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)
        - Add a `Lag analyze` panel in Grafana [#4891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4891)
        - Expose configuration parameters of the Kafka producer to make them configurable in TiCDC [#4385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4385)
        - Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        - Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        - Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)

>         - Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Add more Prometheus and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
```

        - Support multiple Kubernetes clusters in Grafana dashboards [#4665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4665)

>         - Add changefeed checkpoint catch-up ETA in metrics [#5232](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5232)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Add catch-up ETA to the `changefeed checkpoint` monitoring metric [#5232](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5232)
```

    - Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV panics and destroys peers unexpectedly because the target Region to be merged is invalid [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the target peer is replaced with the peer that is destroyed without being initialized when merging a Region [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when applying snapshot is aborted [#11618](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11618)
    - Fix a bug that TiKV cannot correctly calculate the number of snapshots being sent when the operator execution fails [#11341](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11341)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that the Region scatterer scheduling lost some peers [#4565](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4565)
    - Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

+ TiFlash

>     -  Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
```

    - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)
    - Fix possible metadata corruption caused by Region merge on a lagging Region peer [#4437](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4437)
    - Fix the issue that a query containing `JOIN` might be hung if an error occurs [#4195](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4195)
    - Fix possible wrong results returned for MPP queries due to incorrect execution plans [#3389](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3389)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that BR fails to back up RawKV [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the issue that default values cannot be replicated [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)
        - Fix a bug that sequence is incorrectly replicated in some cases [#4563](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4552)
        - Fix a bug that a TiCDC node exits abnormally when a PD leader is killed [#4248](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4248)

>         - Fix a bug that MySQL sink generates duplicated `replace` SQL statements when`batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that MySQL sink generates duplicated `replace` SQL statements when `batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)
```

        - Fix the issue of panic and data inconsistency that occurs when outputting the default column value [#3929](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3929)
        - Fix the issue that `mq sink write row` does not have monitoring data [#3431](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3431)
        - Fix the issue that replication cannot be performed when `min.insync.replicas` is smaller than `replication-factor` [#3994](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3994)
        - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when a replication task is removed [#3128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3128)

>         - Fix the bug that HTTP API panics when the required processor infomation does not exist [#3840](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3840)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that HTTP API panics when the required processor information does not exist [#3840](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3840)
```

>         - Fix the bug that HTTP API panics when the required processor infomation does not exist [#3840](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3840)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that HTTP API panics when the required processor information does not exist [#3840](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3840)
```

>         - Fix the issue that BR fails when backing up RawKV [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that BR fails to back up RawKV [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)
```

    - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Compatibility changes> TiDB)- Change the default value of the system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) from `2` to `1` [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)
    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Compatibility changes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Change the default value of `regionMaxKeyCount` from 1_440_000 to 1_280_000, to avoid too many empty Regions after data import [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        -
        -

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    -

+ TiKV

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Transfer the leadership to CDC observer to reduce latency jitter [#12111](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12111)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> TiKV)- Reduce the TiCDC recovery time by reducing the number of the Regions that require the Resolve Locks step [#11993](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11993)

+ PD

    -

+ TiDB Dashboard

    -

+ TiFlash

    -

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        -

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

    + Data Migration (DM)

        - 
```

+ TiDB Dashboard

    -

+ TiFlash

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that casting `INI` to `DECIMAL` might cause overflow [#3920](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3920)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `DATETIME` to `DECIMAL` [#4151](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4151)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        -

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

    +  Data Migration (DM)
    
        - 

```

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix a bug that TiDB Lightning may not delete the metadata schema when some import tasks do not contain source files [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
        - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not report errors when the S3 storage path does not exist [#28031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28031) [#30709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30709)

    + TiDB Binlog

        -

## __unsorted

+ PingCAP/TiDB

    - ```release-note [#33966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33966)
    - Fix some connections and goroutines leak caused by not closed HTTP response body [#30571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30571)
    - Fix the bug that TiDB logs many `failed to check the user authplugin` when a user connects to TiDB. [#29709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29709)
    - Fix BR failure on backup rawkv. [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)

+ TiKV/TiKV

    - fix tikv panic and peer unexpected destroy due to fake merge target [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)

>     - fix panic when target peer is replaced with an destroyed uninitialized peer during merge [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)

Reviewer 3: These are all copied from release notes of other versions except 12232, 12048, 11618

    - Increase the max supported depth of expression/plan tree in dag request from 100 to 200. [#3354](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3354)
    - Fixed the inconsistent behavior of CastStringAsDecimal between tiflash and tidb/tikv. [#3619](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3619)
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after altering a primary key column to a larger int data type [#3569](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3569)
    - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong because it will be converted to int type. [#3447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3447)
    - Fix tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed. [#3401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3401)
    - Fix that coalesce mistakenly removed nullable flag from the result column. [#3388](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3388)
    - Fix bug that collation does not work for nullable type [#3391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3391)
    - Fix the issue of unexpected error that `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)

+ PD

>     - None. [#4808](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4808)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion

```

---
title: TiDB 5.2.4 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.2.4 Release Notes

Release Date: April xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.2.4

## Compatibility change(s)

+ TiDB

    - Fix the issue that system variable `max_allowed_packet` does not work. [#31422](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31422)
    - Fix an issue that REPLACE statement changing other rows when the auto ID is out of range [#29483](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29483)

>     - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Compatibility changes> TiDB)- Change the default value of the system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) from `2` to `1` [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Change the default value of the system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) from `2` to `1` [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)
```

Reviewer 6: 这个后面后统一去掉的，现在标识出来是为了减轻大家的 review 和翻译负担。

        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Expose configuration parameters of the Kafka producer to make them configurable in TiCDC [#4385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4385)
        - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC)- Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)

> 

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4665)
        - Show changefeed checkepoint catch-up ETA in metrics. [#3311](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3311)
```

    + Dumpling

        -

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note 1

    + TiDB Binlog

        - note 1

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong range calculation results for Nulleq function on Enum values [#32428](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32428)
>     - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that INDEX HASH JOIN returns the `send on closed channel` error [#31129](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31129)
>     - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that concurrent column type change causes inconsistency between the schema and the data [#31048](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31048)
>     - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue of potential data index inconsistency in optimistic transaction mode [#30410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30410)
>     - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that a SQL operation is canceled when its JSON type column joins its `CHAR` type column [#29401](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29401)
>     - executor: fix pipelined window invalid memory address [#30326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30326)
>     - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that window functions might return different results when using a transaction or not [#29947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29947)
>     - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `Column 'col_name' in field list is ambiguous` error is reported unexpectedly when a SQL statement contains natural join [#25041](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25041)
>     - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when casting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
>     - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (set to `on` or `off`) [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of deleting data of multiple tables using `left join` [#31321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31321)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix a bug that TiDB may dispatch duplicate tasks to TiFlash [#32814](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32814)
>     - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the MPP task list empty error when executing a query [#31636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31636)
>     - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of index join caused by an innerWorker panic [#31494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31494)
>     - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the issue that executing the `INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
>     - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong query results due to the optimization of `Order By` [#30271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30271)
>     - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the wrong result that might occur when performing `JOIN` on `ENUM` type columns [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)
>     - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix the panic when using the `CASE WHEN` function on the `ENUM` data type [#29357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29357)
>     - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiDB)- Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` function in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix wrong range calculation results for Nulleq function on Enum values [#32428](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32428)
    - Fix the issue that INDEX HASH JOIN returns the `send on closed channel` error [#31129](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31129)
    - Fix the issue that concurrent column type change causes inconsistency between the schema and the data [#31048](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31048)
    - Fix the issue of potential data index inconsistency in optimistic transaction mode [#30410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30410)
    - Fix the issue that a SQL operation is canceled when its JSON type column joins its `CHAR` type column [#29401](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29401)
    - Fix the issue that Window function should return error but cause TiDB to crash [#30326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30326)
    - Fix the issue that window functions might return different results when using a transaction or not [#29947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29947)
    - Fix the issue that the `Column 'col_name' in field list is ambiguous` error is reported unexpectedly when a SQL statement contains natural join [#25041](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25041)
    - Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when casting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
    - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (set to `on` or `off`) [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)
    - Fix wrong results of deleting data of multiple tables using `left join` [#31321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31321)
    - Fix a bug that TiDB may dispatch duplicate tasks to TiFlash [#32814](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32814)
    - Fix the MPP task list empty error when executing a query [#31636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31636)
    - Fix wrong results of index join caused by an innerWorker panic [#31494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31494)
    - Fix the issue that executing the `INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
    - Fix wrong query results due to the optimization of `Order By` [#30271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30271)
    - Fix the wrong result that might occur when performing `JOIN` on `ENUM` type columns [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)
    - Fix the panic when using the `CASE WHEN` function on the `ENUM` data type [#29357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29357)
    - Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` function in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)
    - Fix the issue that the Merge Join Executor would get the wrong result in special cases [#33042](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33042)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB gets the wrong result when the correlated subquery output constant  [#32089](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32089)
    - FIx the issue that TiDB write wrong data caused by the wrong encoding of ENUM/SET column [#32302](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32302)
    - Fix the issue that the MAX/MIN function on the ENUM/SET column returns the wrong result when TiDB enables new_collation [#31638](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31638)
    - Fix the issue that IndexHashJoin executor doesn't exit successfully [#31062](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31062)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB may read wrong data when the table has virtual columns [#30965](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30965)
    - Fix the issue that the setting of the log level doesn't work for slow query log [#30309](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30309)
```

    - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix a bug that tikv-ctl cannot return the correct Region-related information [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)
    - (dup: release-5.0.6.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)
    - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV)- Fix the issue that retrying prewrite requests in the pessimistic transaction mode might cause the risk of data inconsistency in rare cases [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)
    - (dup: release-5.3.0.md > Bug Fixes> TiKV)- Fix a memory leak caused by monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)

+ PD

    - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that the Region scatterer scheduling lost some peers [#4565](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4565)
    - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> PD)- Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

+ TiDB Dashboard

    -

> + TiFlash
> 
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix a bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that casting `INI` to `DECIMAL` might cause overflow [#3920](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3920)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `DATETIME` to `DECIMAL` [#4151](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4151)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
+ TiFlash

    - Fix the bug that MPP tasks might leak threads forever [#4238](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4238)
    - Fix the issue that the result of `IN` is incorrect in multi-value expressions [#4016](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4016)
    - Fix the issue that the date format identifies `'\n'` as an invalid separator [#4036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4036)
    - Fix the potential query error after adding columns under heavy read workload [#3967](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3967)
    - Fix the bug that invalid storage dir configurations lead to unexpected behavior [#4093](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4093)
    - Fix the bug that some exception is not handle is not handled properly [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)
    - Fix the bug that function `STR_TO_DATE()` incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing microseconds [#3557](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3557)
    - Fix the issue that casting `INI` to `DECIMAL` might cause overflow [#3920](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3920)
    - Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `DATETIME` to `DECIMAL` [#4151](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4151)
    - Fix the wrong result that occurs when casting `FLOAT` to `DECIMAL` when overflow happens [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
    - Fix the issue that `castStringAsReal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV [#3475](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3475)
    - Fix the issue that `CastStringAsDecimal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV [#3619](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3619)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might return the `EstablishMPPConnection` error after it is restarted [#3615](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3615)
    - Fix the issue that obsolete data cannot be reclaimed after set tiflash replica to 0 [#3659](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3659)
    - Fix the potential data inconsistency caused by widening the primary key column when the primary key is handle [#3569](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3569)
    - Fix the possible parsing errors when an SQL statement contains extremely long nested expressions [#3354](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3354)
    - Fix the possible wrong result that queries with the `where <string>` clause [#3447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3447)
    - Fix the possible wrong result when new collation is enabled [#3388](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3388), [#3391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3391)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when an MPP query is stopped [#3401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3401)
    - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)
```

Reviewer 5: `- Fix the problem that empty segments cannot be merged after gc [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)` is removed since it is not merged into release-5.2 branch

Reviewer 5: Found a typo in the 6.0.0 release note https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/8306

        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue of overly frequent warnings caused by MySQL sink deadlock [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2706)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the bug that the `enable-old-value` configuration item is not automatically set to `true` on Canal and Maxwell protocols [#3676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3676)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the issue that Avro sink does not support parsing JSON type columns [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)
        - (dup: release-5.3.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3010)
        - (dup: release-5.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the OOM issue in the container environment [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1798)
        - (dup: release-4.0.16.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC)- Fix the memory leak issue after processing DDLs [#3174](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3174)

> 

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - Fix chengefeed getting stuck when tables are repeatedly scheduled in the same node [#4464](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4464)
       - `Fix a bug that openapi may be stuck when pd is abnormal` [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4778)
       - Fix stale metrics caused by owner changes. [#4774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4774)
       - Fix stability problem in workerpool, which is used by Unified Sorter. [#4447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4447)
       - Fix kv client cached region metric could be negative. [#4295](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4295) 
```

        - (dup: release-5.1.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning)- Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not report errors when the S3 storage path does not exist [#28031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28031) [#30709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30709)

    + TiDB Binlog

        -

## __unsorted

+ PingCAP/TiDB

    - ```release-note [#33966](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33966)
    - Fix some connections and goroutines leak caused by not closed HTTP response body [#30571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30571)
    - Fix the bug that TiDB logs many `failed to check the user authplugin` when a user connects to TiDB. [#29709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29709)
    - Fix BR failure on backup rawkv. [#32607](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32607)

+ TiKV/TiKV

    - fix tikv panic and peer unexpected destroy due to fake merge target [#12232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12232)
    - fix panic when target peer is replaced with an destroyed uninitialized peer during merge [#12048](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12048)

> + PingCAP/TiFlash
> 
>     - Fix the potential crash issue that occurs when TLS is enabled [#4196](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4196)
>     - Fix the problem that empty segments cannot be merged after gc [#4511](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4511)
>     - Fix wrong result of cast(float as decimal) when overflow happens [#3998](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3998)
>     - Fix the bug that invalid storage dir configurations lead to unexpected behavior [#4093](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4093)
>     - mpp task handle pingcap exception. [#4101](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4101)
>     - Fix str_to_date() function incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing Microseconds [#3557](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3557)
>     - (dup: release-6.0.0-dmr.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash)- Fix the TiFlash panic issue that occurs when the memory limit is enabled [#3902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3902)
>     - Fix the bug that castStringAsReal has different behaivor between tiflash and tikv/tidb. [#3475](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3475)
>     - Fix random `EstablishMPPConnection` fail after TiFlash server restart. [#3615](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3615)
>     - Fix the problem that obsolete data cannot be reclaimed after set tiflash replica to 0 [#3659](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3659)
>     - Increase the max supported depth of expression/plan tree in dag request from 100 to 200. [#3354](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3354)
>     - Fixed the inconsistent behavior of CastStringAsDecimal between tiflash and tidb/tikv. [#3619](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3619)
>     - Fix potential data inconsistency after altering a primary key column to a larger int data type [#3569](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3569)
>     - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong because it will be converted to int type. [#3447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3447)
>     - Fix tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed. [#3401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3401)
>     - Fix that coalesce mistakenly removed nullable flag from the result column. [#3388](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3388)
>     - Fix bug that collation does not work for nullable type [#3391](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3391)
>     - Fix the issue of unexpected error that `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)` [#3351](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3351)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

+ PD

    - None. [#4808](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4808)

+ Tools

    + PingCAP/TiCDC

        - Fix chengefeed getting stuck when tables are repeatedly scheduled in the same node [#4464](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4464)
        - `Fix a bug that openapi may be stuck when pd is abnormal` [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4778)
        - Fix stale metrics data when TiCDC owner switches. [#4774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4774)

>         - `None`. [#4858](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4858)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
```

> + Tools
> 
>     + PingCAP/TiCDC
> 
>         - Fix chengefeed getting stuck when tables are repeatedly scheduled in the same node [#4464](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4464)
>         - `Fix a bug that openapi may be stuck when pd is abnormal` [#4778](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4778)
>         - Fix stale metrics data when TiCDC owner switches. [#4774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4774)
>         - `None`. [#4858](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4858)
>         - Fix stale metrics caused by owner changes. [#4774](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4774)
>         - metrics: support multi-k8s in grafana dashboards [#4665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4665)
>         - Fix stability problem in workerpool, which is used by Unified Sorter. [#4447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4447)
>         - `None`. [#4675](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4675)
>         - `None`. [#4607](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4607)
>         - `None`. [#4588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4588)
>         - `None`. [#4561](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4561)
>         - `None`. [#4128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4128)
>         - `None`. [#4135](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4135)
>         - Fix kv client cached region metric could be negative. [#4295](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4295)
>         - `None` [#4266](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4266)
>         - `None`. [#4223](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4223)
>         - Please add a release note. If you don't think this PR needs a release note then fill it with `None`. [#3867](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3867)
>         - Show changefeed checkepoint catch-up ETA in metrics. [#3311](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3311)
>         - `None`. [#4089](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4089)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion

```
